Java Technology is a group of various specifications. Currently Java specifications are grouped under three major editions, namely,
1.Java Standard Edition (Java SE)
2.Java Micro Edition (Java ME), and
3.Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE), where Java EE is the superset of other two.
Specifications evolve over a period of time, with modifications happening due to reported bugs and suggestions from the user community. These changes evolve separately and later get accommodated as a part of the overall specification when they receive community acceptance. JMX (Java Management extensions) was defined as part of Java SE from version 5 and therefore is a part of Java EE specification. The Java EE specification however has not clearly defined the implementation of how JMX is used for managing and monitoring Java EE applications. As a result, application server vendors/application developers have handled management of MBean (Managed Bean) in their own unique ways. This has resulted in applications which are not portable across different servers when resources are instrumented with JMX.
This project gives a standard solution to portably deploy JMX-instrumented Java EE applications across various application servers by critically analysing the various possibilities. This has been achieved by analysing all the major frameworks and tools that are currently easing JMX instrumentation/deployment and collaborated with experts who built the Java specifications and frameworks to find the best solution possible.
This project is currently started with the knowledge and the code developed as a part of a dissertation.